preamble, prior art updates (#321)
theislab/single-cell-best-practices: jupyter-book/preamble.md

## Introduction

> The human body is a complex machine that heavily relies on the basic units of life - cells. These cells exhibit remarkable diversity, varying in type and function, and can undergo significant transitions during development, in response to disease, or during regenerative processes. This cellular heterogeneity manifests in their structure, function, and gene expression profiles. Disruptions to this delicate balance can lead to systemic dysregulation, contributing to severe conditions such as cancer {cite}`Macaulay2017`. Therefore, understanding how cells behave under normal and perturbated states is critical for improving our knowledge of the entire cellular systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The human body is a complex machine that heavily relies on the basic units of life - cells.
These cells exhibit remarkable diversity, varying in type and function, and can undergo significant transitions during development, in response to disease, or during regenerative processes.
This cellular heterogeneity manifests in their structure, function, and gene expression profiles.
Disruptions to this delicate balance can lead to systemic dysregulation, contributing to severe conditions such as cancer {cite}`Macaulay2017`.
Therefore, understanding how cells behave under normal and perturbed states is critical for deepening our understanding of entire cellular systems.
```

> To address this challenge, researchers employ a variety of strategies, with one of the most promising being profiling cells at the individual level. Traditionally, each cells' transcriptome was primarily examined in a process known as single-cell RNA sequencing. However, recent advancements in single-cell genomics now enable the integration of transcriptome data with spatial, chromatin accessibility, or protein-level information. These developments not only enhance our understanding of complex regulatory mechanisms but also introduce additional challenges in data analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To address this challenge, researchers employ a variety of strategies, with one of the most promising being profiling cells at the individual level.
Traditionally, each cells' transcriptome was primarily examined in a process known as single-cell RNA sequencing. However, recent advancements in single-cell genomics now enable the integration of transcriptome data with spatial, chromatin accessibility, or protein-level information.
These developments not only enhance our understanding of complex regulatory mechanisms but also introduce additional challenges in data analysis.
```

> Currently, analysts are faced with an overwhelming array of computational tools - over 1,000 methods dedicated to single-cell analysis alone. Navigating this extensive landscape to produce reliable, cutting-edge results poses a significant challenge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, analysts are faced with an overwhelming array of computational tools - over 1,000 methods dedicated to single-cell analysis alone.
Navigating this extensive landscape to produce reliable, cutting-edge results poses a significant challenge.
```

Could you update the number, please? The source is https://www.scrna-tools.org/ Also it's over 1xxx for **single-cell RNA-Seq** alone. It's from https://genomebiology.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13059-021-02519-4 and we should consider citing it here. It might already be in the citations - if not, consider adding it.

The soruce

## What this book covers

> This book aims to guide both beginners and experienced professionals in **best practices** of single-cell sequencing analysis. It provides a comprehensive overview of essential analytical steps, from preprocessing to visualization and statistical evaluation and beyond. By following this book, readers will acquire the skills to independently analyze unimodal and multimodal single-cell sequencing data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This book aims to guide both beginners and experienced professionals in **best practices** of single-cell sequencing analysis.
It provides a comprehensive overview of essential analytical steps, from preprocessing to visualization and statistical evaluation and beyond.
By following this book, readers will acquire the skills to independently analyze unimodal and multimodal single-cell sequencing data.
```

Style wise, should we say "the reader" or YOU? I think the latter is probably more common and better?

> The recommendations presented are grounded in external benchmarks and reviews wherever possible, ensuring the approaches taught are both effective and reliable. Additionally, this book is designed to serve as a dynamic resource, evolving with the field to reflect new insights and updated best practices.

Reviewer: > Additionally, this book is designed to serve as a dynamic resource, evolving with the field to reflect new insights and updated best practices.

Quite a convoluted way to say "this will be updated bro. Consider coming back later." but it might be fine.

Author: I'll fix it to be a bit more casual!

## What this book does not cover

> This book does not cover fundamental concepts of biology or computer science, including basic programming skills. Nor does it serve as an exhaustive catalog of all available tools for specific tasks. Instead, it emphasizes well-validated methods that have been externally benchmarked or recognized as community standards. When such external validation is unavailable, our recommendations are only based on our extensive practical experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This book does not cover fundamental concepts of biology or computer science, including basic programming skills.
Further, it does not serve as an exhaustive catalog of all available tools for specific tasks.
Instead, it emphasizes well-validated methods that have been independently benchmarked or recognized as community standards.
When such external validation is unavailable, our recommendations are solely based on our extensive practical experience and discussions with experts.
```

## Who should read this book

> This book is designed for a diverse audience with an interest in single-cell data analysis, including **biologists** looking to gain practical data analysis skills, **computer scientists** seeking to explore the biological underpinnings and computational challenges of single-cell data, and **bioinformaticians** aiming to refine their knowledge or stay updated with best practices. Whether you’re a beginner eager to learn the fundamentals or an experienced analyst striving to enhance your expertise and adopt effective workflows, this book provides the support you need to navigate the complexities of single-cell analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This book is designed for a diverse audience with an interest in single-cell data analysis, including **biologists** looking to learn single-cell data analysis skills, **computer scientists** seeking to explore the biological underpinnings and computational challenges of single-cell data, and **bioinformaticians** aiming to refine their knowledge or stay updated with best practices.
Whether you’re a beginner eager to learn the fundamentals or an experienced analyst looking to adopt effective workflows, this book provides the support you need to navigate the complexities of single-cell analysis.
```

Both of these sentences are pretty long. Note that you address the reader with "you" which I think is fine. But then we should be consistent and also do that above.

Your second sentence reeks a bit of chatGPT which loves using "navigate xzy". We should ensure that we don't appear to have auto generated substantial amounts. Generally these two sentences are also pretty long and verbose.

## Structure of the book

> Each chapter corresponds to a distinct phase of a typical single-cell data analysis project. While an analysis workflow should generally follow the order of the chapters, flexibility is encouraged depending on specific downstream analysis objectives. Each chapter is supplemented with extensive references, and readers are encouraged to consult these primary sources for a deeper understanding. Although we strive to provide comprehensive background information, our summaries and the [glossary](glossary.md) may not capture the full scope of reasoning behind every recommendation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each chapter corresponds to a distinct phase of a typical single-cell data analysis project.
While an analysis workflow should generally follow the order of the chapters, flexibility is encouraged depending on specific downstream analysis objectives.
Each chapter is supplemented with extensive references, and readers are encouraged to consult these primary sources for a deeper understanding.
Although we strive to provide comprehensive background information, our summaries and the [glossary](glossary.md) may not capture the full scope of reasoning behind every recommendation.
```

## Prerequisites

> Bioinformatics is inherently multidisciplinary, requiring knowledge of both biology and computer science. Single-cell analysis is particularly demanding, as it integrates multiple subfields and often involves large datasets. While this book cannot cover all the necessary foundational knowledge for computational single-cell analysis, we recommend the following resources to enhance your learning experience:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bioinformatics is inherently multidisciplinary, requiring knowledge of both biology and computer science.
Single-cell analysis is particularly demanding because it requires deep knowledge of multiple subfields.
While this book cannot cover all prerequisites for computational single-cell analysis, we recommend the following resources to enhance your learning experience:
```

> - **Basic Python programming**: Familiarity with control flow (e.g., loops, conditional statements), basic data structures (e.g., lists, dictionaries, sets), and key libraries such as Pandas and Numpy is essential. Newcomers can benefit from the free book [Automate the boring stuff with Python](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Basic Python programming**: Familiarity with control flow (e.g., loops, conditional statements), basic data structures (e.g., lists, dictionaries, sets), and key libraries such as Pandas and Numpy is essential.
Newcomers can benefit from the free book [Automate the boring stuff with Python](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/).
```

> - **AnnData and Scanpy**: While prior experience with these tools is helpful, it is not strictly required. This book provides a detailed introduction to AnnData and outlines the workflow for working with Scanpy. However, it does not cover the full range of Scanpy’s functionalities. To deepen your understanding, we recommend exploring the [scanpy tutorials](https://scanpy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorials.html) and referring to the [scanpy API reference](https://scanpy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api.html) as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **AnnData and Scanpy**: While prior experience with these tools is helpful, it is not strictly required.
This book provides a detailed introduction to AnnData and outlines the workflow for working with Scanpy.
However, it does not cover the full range of Scanpy’s functionalities.
To deepen your understanding, we recommend exploring the [scanpy tutorials](https://scanpy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorials.html) and referring to the [scanpy API reference](https://scanpy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api.html) as needed.
```

> - **Multimodal Data Analysis**: For readers who have interest in multimodal data analysis, understanding tools like muon and MuData is beneficial. The [muon tutorials](https://muon-tutorials.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) provide a solid introduction to this field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Multimodal Data Analysis**: For readers who have interest in multimodal data analysis, understanding tools like muon and MuData is beneficial.
The [muon tutorials](https://muon-tutorials.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) provide a technical introduction.
```

- **Basic R Programming**: Knowledge of control flow and basic data structures suffices. New learners can refer to [R for data science](https://r4ds.had.co.nz/) for a comprehensive introduction.

> - **Basic Biology**: While this book offers a rough overview of data generation, it does not cover fundamental topics like {term}`DNA`, RNA, and proteins. _Molecular Biology of the Cell_ by Bruce Alberts et al. is a recommended resource for those new to molecular biology.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Basic Biology**: While this book offers a rough overview of data generation, it does not cover fundamental topics like {term}`DNA`, RNA, and proteins.
_Molecular Biology of the Cell_ by Bruce Alberts et al. is a recommended resource for those new to molecular biology.
```

## Peer-review

> Although the content has been reviewed by multiple authors, editors, and external experts, this book has not undergone formal peer review. We encourage readers to provide constructive feedback to help refine and improve the material.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although the content has been reviewed by multiple authors, editors, and external experts, this book has not undergone formal peer review.
We encourage readers to provide constructive feedback to help refine and improve the material.
```

Can you add some details here how to do it? Stuff like where to open an issue, adding reasoning and sources etc blablabal
